[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[BIRDS TWEETING]
>> I must go down
to the seas again,
to the lonely sea and the sky.
And all I ask is a tall ship
and a star to steer her by.
That poem has always
struck very deeply with me
because the sea
is a great solace.
It's so wide.
It gives you perspective.
It's so timeless, and
it's part of us all.
That connection that
humans have with nature,
that wild, elemental
aspect, that's
where my heart is, where my soul
sings again, where I can say,
OK, I'm Christie.
And that's all that matters.
I'm Christie-- doesn't matter if
I shake now while I'm saying it.
I am Christie.
And it's OK to just be Christie.
I don't have to
be something else.
At this point in my
life, I feel a little bit
like a ship that's
gone astray, and I'm
trying to find the wind that's
going to blow me back on course.
When I got divorced, it was
after 20 years of marriage.
You lose something
of yourself, and you
have a lot of grief because
of loss, loss of love,
loss of family life,
and there was just
a huge load of stress packed
right on top of each other.
And then, at the same time, I
realized I was diagnosed with
Parkinson's.
So that was something
that I hadn't actually
been dealing with because
I'd just been throwing myself
into work and my family and, you
know, trying to make ends meet.
All of that took its toll on me.
And I think it all
sort of went, [BLOWS].
Things were just falling apart,
and I basically fell apart.
When you're in a
really difficult place,
you can lose perspective
very quickly.
And you start
questioning yourself.
You start saying,
what am I doing wrong?
What have I done
to deserve this?
So I didn't want to
feel what I was feeling.
I didn't want to feel sad or
grief or anything like that.
I wanted to just
power through it.
I wasn't taught about how to
understand what my emotions are.
If you don't understand
what you're feeling,
and if you're not
allowed to have feelings,
you tend to suppress it all.
And that doesn't work
because, eventually, it's
going to come out.
You're going to shatter
into little pieces,
and then you're going
to say, oh, look, here's
a little piece of grief.
Here's a little piece of sorrow.
It's OK to have grief and
sorrow, and it's OK for it
to last a long time.
Positivity does not
mean suppressing
the negative emotions.
Positivity means that
you feel those emotions,
but you know you're
going to be OK,
and it's going to
change one day.
I am scared about
what the future holds.
A very hard thing is to
see how other people worry
and what they're feeling,
for my kids especially.
I don't want them to
be stressed by me.
I want to be able to
be there for them.
But I can't take
away their pain.
That's the sad thing.
I can't take away their sadness.
I wish I could.
But I can allow them
to have their pain
and to express their
emotions and say,
it's OK to be sad about it.
And when crying gets easier,
laughing gets easier.
So once you cry, you leave
a little bit of space
for the joy to come in.
I think Parkinson's, for me, has
been a silver lining of a cloud.
It was a call for
me to go slowly.
And sometimes, you need
to go slowly in life,
not just because you're
tired and exhausted,
but because you need to step
back and say, what patterns am I
repeating over and over that's
putting me in a place where
my body is aching and tired?
I tend to see the best
in everybody else.
But I don't see that
I deserve it as well.
That has been my struggle
is that I'm not sure
that I deserve kindness.
Now, I'm still not sure, but--
but now I can see--
now I'm-- I'm more clear on
seeing how other people can--
how kindness works.
All it comes down to in
the end is loving yourself
because if you can love
yourself, you can love others.
If you're kind to yourself,
you can be kind to others.
Humanity is about the ability to
see the beauty in somebody else
and to be kind to
the other parts.
That love, which is so
intangible, but it's there--
it's real, and it's a miracle
that we love each other at all.
It's a complete
and utter miracle.
Being kind, now, I see, is
about opening yourself and being
vulnerable.
And a lot of that is about
reaching out to people
when you are scared and
when you are lonely.
And even when I'm
depressed and miserable
and the medicine is not working
or my body is really inflamed
because I'm sick and
I can't get out of bed
and I'm supposed to be
working, and even those times,
there are people
who believe in me.
I'm eternally grateful, and I
cannot ever say how much people
have done for me.
It just blows my
mind that people
can be so beautiful
and loving and kind.
And I have the most warm,
generous, amazing souls.
People have come to me in
my deepest, darkest moments
and brought me out
into the light again.
So my daughter says, if you want
a flower, you'll find a flower.
You'll find it somewhere.
So the learning of where the
flowers are in my life, that's
been my journey.
So even sometimes when
I've had a really bad day,
then I go outside
at night, and I just
look at the moon and the clouds.
And then you just think,
this is the universe,
this whole universe.
We're all made of stardust.
Just being is a miracle.
Just being alive is a miracle.
And instead of berating
my poor, shaky body,
I should actually be
saying, bloody well done
for getting through this.
Well done.
I'm proud of you.
Thank you.
Thank you for shaking
because you're telling me
that I'm not doing
something right, that I need
to take better care of myself.
One can find hope in
the smallest of places.
The beauty that is out there
every day, that gives me hope.
I have hope, when
I still have me.
You can't hope for
long-lasting love,
so the hope is for
a beautiful life.